.TH "cyclades-devices" "5" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
cyclades-devices \- tables for driving cyclades-serial-client

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The cyclades-devices file supplies all mapping between Unix device
files (/dev/*) and the addresses of serial ports of
Cyclades Terminal Servers. It contains one entry for each serial
port, with the following format:

device:rastype:rasname:physport:type:options

Note: A # character at beginning of line indicates a comment

The entry fields are:

.TP 
.B devname
\- A full pathname of the file that will be associated to
the serial port. It must start with  a "/dev/" preffix.
Two naming schemes may be used here:
\- devname does not exist, and will be linked to
a free pseudo\-tty. This is the default behavior of
cyclades-ser-cli.
\- devname is the name of a valid slave pseudo\-tty.
In this case, the '\-t 1' option must be assigned
in options field.
(Note: this option is not supported by this release).

.TP 
.B rastype
\- Terminal Server type:
\- prts, for Cyclades Pr302X/TS Terminal Servers.
\- path, for Cyclades PathRAS Terminal Server.

.TP 
.B rasname
\- Host Name or IP Address of the Terminal Server where
the serial port resides.

.TP 
.B physport
\- Number of physical port in the Terminal Server. If
'physport' is  assigned to zero, 'rasname' will be
treated as the IP address associated with this port,
in a IP\-based addressing scheme.

.TP 
.B type	
\- Server type that will be contacted to handle the
serial port:
\- rtelnet, for Remote Telnet Server
\- socket, for Socket Server

.TP 
.B options
\- Per\-port specific options, passed to cyclades-ser-cli program.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
1. Device on a PR3020/TS Terminal Server pr3k Port 1, accessed
through /dev/ctty01 device file name, using telnet protocol
(remote telnet server)

/dev/ctty01:prts:pr3k:1:rtelnet:

2. The same device, but with an IP address pr3k_port1
associated to the serial port (IP\-based port addressing)

/dev/ctty01:prts:pr3k_port1:0:rtelnet:

3. Device on a PathRAS Terminal Server pr3k Port 2, accessed
through /dev/ctty02 device file name, using socket protocol
(socket server)

/dev/ctty02:path:pr3k:2:socket:

.SH "FILES"
/etc/cyclades-devices	This file

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cyclades-serial-client (1),
.BR cyclades-ser-cli (1)
