.TH "cyclades-serial-client" "8" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
.BR cyclades-serial-client
Serial Port Interface for Cyclades Terminal Servers

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B cyclades-serial-client
.I (start | stop | restart | status) [devname]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
For each physical port listed in cyclades-devices file,
cyclades-serial-client controls the status of the corresponding
cyclades-ser-cli interface.

.SH "OPTIONS"
cyclades-serial-client must be invoked with one of the (start, stop, restart
or status), and optionaly with a argument associated to a specific device.
In this case, the action spedified as the option will be performed only for
this device.

If this argument was not supplied, the action will be performed for all
devices listed in cyclades-devices file. The mandatory options are:

.TP 
.B start
\- Starts the cyclades-ser-cli program, using parameters supplied
in the cyclades-devices  file. If this program is already
running, a message will be displayed, and no additional copy
will be started.

.TP 
.B stop
\- Stops the cyclades-ser-cli program(s), by issuing a SIGTERM signal.

.TP 
.B restart
\- Simulates a hangup to cyclades-ser-cli program(s), by issuing a SIGUSR1
signal.

.TP 
.B status
\- Checks the status of cyclades-ser-cli programs(s).


.SH "EXAMPLES"
Assuming the the following cyclades-devices file configuration:

/dev/ctty01:pr3k:1:rtelnet:
/dev/ctty02:pr3k:2:socket:

1 . Start all devices:
cyclades-serial-client start
Messages:
"Starting /dev/ctty01 <==> pr3k:1 interface"
"Starting /dev/ctty02 <==> pr3k:2 interface"

2 . Try to start them again:
cyclades-serial-client start
Messages:
"cyclades-serial-client : /dev/ctty01 already active"
"cyclades-serial-client : /dev/ctty02 already active"

3 . Stop only /dev/ctty01 device:
cyclades-serial-client stop /dev/ctty01
Messages:
"Stopping /dev/ctty01 <==> pr3k:2 interface"

4 . Checking status:
cyclades-serial-client status
Messages:
"/dev/ctty01 (rtelnet at pr3k:1) is inactive"
"/dev/ctty02 ( socket at pr3k:2) active, pid 2983"

5 . Start a non\-valid device
cyclades-serial-client start /dev/xtty01
Messages:
"cyclades-serial-client : device /dev/xtty01 does not exist"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cyclades-ser-cli (1),
.BR cyclades-devices (5)
